# Project Proposal

## Justification for Experiment Choice

This paper's result is that making opportunity costs explicit has a significant effect on the choices (and spread of choices) of decision makers. I am interested in this research regarding opportunity costs because I did a study over the summer researching to what extent online workers will give up immediate income to learn skills. I paid workers on Upwork conditional cash incentives for every skill/course they mastered (i.e. English, Grammar, Idioms, Algebra, Geometry, Python, HTML/CSS/JS, Django/DRF). This paper is related because it studies the effects of when opportunity cost is made explicit vs implicit. As more and more people go through my training program (over a 100 have now), more people will start calculating the money they are losing by studying but also the future earnings they are gaining by learning skills. I will need to decide whether to make this "opportunity cost" per say explicit to my program's participants, and replicating the Greenberg2016 will give me some insights on whether and how to do so. 

## Stimuli, Procedures, and Challenges

To conduct Experiment 1 of "Opportunity Cost Neglect Attenuates the Effect of Choices on Preferences.pdf", I will need to recruit a gender and age diverse sample of 101 people from Amazon Mechanical Turk. I will need to randomly assign each subject into an "implicit" or "explicit" condition, depending on how opportunity costs will be presented to them. In a prechoice survey, I will ask participants how they would rate 11 marketing promotion offers (on a scale of 1-7), one offer of which would be a $100 Visa Gift Card (the opportunity cost, presented either last or first). In the actual choice survey, I will inform participants that they have 50K airline miles which when expired will be converted into a $100 Visa Gift Card. I will ask each "explicit" condition participant their choice between each of the 10 non-visa-card promotion offers and the the $100 Visa Gift Card. I will ask each "implicit" condition participant simply whether or not they'd spend their airline miles on each of the 10 non-visa-card promotion offers. I would finally present each participant their choices and repeat the prechoice survey as a postchoice survey. 

Then I will analyze the results. I will use regression model to predict the postchoice spread from the prechoice spread, condition, proportion of focal offers chosen, and the interaction between condition and proportion of focal offers chosen. I will report the regression results and what they mean. I will also check that measurement error on the prechoice and postchoice surveys are not the cause of any relationship found by doing a swapping test as per Chen and Risen 2010 (cited in Greenberg2016 paper). I think that the challenges of this replication will be figuring out the timing between surveys and spacing the surveys how the researchers did, as results may largely be a function of the memory of participants about offer details. Another challenge will be ensuring that I get a population that does not have a significant difference between implicit and explicit segments, with respect to their understanding of what happens when the 50K miles expire. This was an important sanity check made in the Greenberg paper. 